README.md, before:

<!-- 
<img width="400" src="assets/img/logo-git-github.png"> -->

# Git Milestones

An introduction to Git and Github.

- [PART 1 - Git Basics](#part-1---git-basics) - Install, configure, and peform basic operations
- [PART 2 - Git Collaboration](#part-2---git-collaboration) - Forking, branching, pull requests

## Instructions

1. Complete each task below, creating files and adding content inside the [completions](#completions) table when prompted with a ✏️   
1. Review course content as needed. Sometimes I share the command you need, but you may need to read the documentation.
1. This milestone is for multiple classes. Insert your own class name when prompted, for example: `critical-web-design`
1. After you finish, celebrate your Git proficiency! 🙌





# PART 1 - Git Basics

Install, configure, and peform basic operations



## 1. Install Git

⚠️ Complete the [command line crash course](https://github.com/omundy/learn-computing/blob/main/topics-command-line.md#crash-course) to prepare to install Git on your machine.
<!-- https://gist.github.com/derhuerst/1b15ff4652a867391f03 -->

### Windows

1. Download the installer at [gitforwindows.org](https://gitforwindows.org/). 
1. Run the installer. Use the default settings but make sure to install [Git BASH](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-bash). 
1. Proceed to "Configure Git"

### Mac

Install Git with Homebrew using these instructions:

1. Copy and run this whole line to Install the [homebrew package manager](https://brew.sh/). If prompted to "Install Command Line Developer Tools?", choose **yes**. 

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

<small>If you are prompted to enter a password the command line doesn't give you feedback that you're typing. Just type your password and hit enter. Press backspace several times if you make a mistake.</small>

2. To confirm installation:

```bash
brew --version
```

3. Then install git using homebrew:

```bash
brew install git
```











## 2. Configure Git

1. This will verify Git is installed by outputing the current version.

```bash
git --version
# -> git version 2.38.1
```

2. Check to see if Git is already configured. If the following returns `"No such file or directory"` then continue to the next step.

```bash
cat ~/.gitconfig
```

3. Add your name (replace with ***your*** information, press return after each line)

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
```

4. Add your email

```bash
git config --global user.email youraddress@example.com
```

5. Set the [default branch to main](https://www.theserverside.com/feature/Why-GitHub-renamed-its-master-branch-to-main)

```bash
git config --global init.defaultBranch main
```

6. Set pull to merge ([not rebase](https://stackoverflow.com/a/36587353/441878))

```bash
git config --global pull.rebase false
```

7. Confirm your global settings worked

```bash
cat ~/.gitconfig
```




## 3. Markdown Introduction

Markdown is a lightweight markup language for creating rich text.

- It has a [simple syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/) similar to [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown#Example)
- It is the standard language for formatting README files (what you are currently viewing!)
- Files use the `.md` extension and can be edited with any plain text editor (e.g. VS Code).
- Preview using the VS Code or the [Markdown Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/markdown-viewer/ckkdlimhmcjmikdlpkmbgfkaikojcbjk/related?hl=en) 

Markdown | HTML | Rendered Output
--- | --- | ---
`[link](https://davidson.edu)` | `<a href="https://davidson.edu">link</a>` | [link](https://davidson.edu)
`**bold text**` | `<b>bold text</b>` | **bold text**
`*italicized text*` | `<i>italicized text</i>` | *italicized text*
<code>\`code`</code> | `<code>code</code>` | `code`
`![text](assets/img/icon.png)` | `<img alt="text" src="assets/img/icon.png">` | ![text](assets/img/icon.png)

**Now you know basic Markdown!** 🎉  

The following instructions will help you learn Git, editing this `.md` file in the process. Use the [github markdown cheatsheet](reference-sheets/github-markdown-cheatsheet.pdf) to check your syntax.

Other Markdown tools

- [Paste (RTF or rendered HTML) to Markdown](https://euangoddard.github.io/clipboard2markdown/)
- [HTML to Markdown](https://codebeautify.org/html-to-markdown)







## 4. Fork this repository

Create a Github account and make your first commit on Github.com

1. [Create a Github account](https://github.com/join)
1. Fork this [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) repository (click the Fork button, top right).
1. ✏️ Edit this `README.md` file (click the pencil icon on the Github.com page) and add your *1st* favorite emoji to the [Completions](#completions) table, in the **Completed** column in appropriate row in the [completions](#completions), below.
1. Commit changes to `README.md` to the `main` branch with the message `commit #1 from Github.com`.
1. ✏️ Use [Markdown documentation](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) to add a link in [completions](#completions). The link text should be the same as the commit message, and the url should point to the Github.com page showing the above commit.
1. ✏️ Tables can be a little tricky in Markdown. Find a good link explaining how to use markdown tables. Paste the link in the [Completions](#completions) table.
1. View the commit history and confirm your edits
1. ✏️ What does `git log` do? Add your answer to [completions](#completions).





## 5. Git Workflow > Github Desktop

Perform a basic Git workflow using Github Desktop. This is the first of four different interfaces to give you practice with Git. You've already forked and made a commit on Github.com so let's move to Github Desktop ...


### Setup

1. Install [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) on your computer
1. Connect your Github account in Github Desktop
1. In Github Desktop, clone the fork (you made above) [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) ...
1. File > Clone Repository > Github.com and select it ...
1. Local Path: Click "Choose" and add a new folder on your computer. This will be the base folder for your work in this class (e.g. `critical-web-design`, `game-development` )
1. Click "Clone" to make a local copy

### Open in VS COde

1. Install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and connect your Github account
1. Open the repo in VS Code: Repository > Open in VS Code (see preferences to change your editor)
1. ✏️ In VS Code, edit this README file and add your *2nd* favorite emoji to [completions](#completions).
1. In Github Desktop, view/confirm your edits to the README file on the Changes tab
1. ✏️ Commit your changes directly to the main branch with the message `commit #2 from Github Desktop`. 
1. Find a link to the above commit on Github.com and use VS Code to add it to [completions](#completions). Commit your change.
1. Click Push origin to push your new commit to remote repo
1. Confirm the changes to the README file were pushed: Choose Repository > View on Github
1. Click on the README file and then click on History to see the history of this file



## 6. Git Workflow > Command line 

Some folks use the CLI as their default tool for editing and publishing source code, but Github Desktop makes it much easier.

### Setup

1. In Github Desktop, ensure you are currently in the [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) repo you cloned above.
1. Click Repository > Open in Terminal ("Bash" in Windows?)

### Use the CLI to navigate directories


1. List files in this directory: `ls`
1. List files in this directory, including hidden: `ls -la`
1. Confirm the existence of the `.git` directory (where Git versions and config are stored)
1. ✏️ View your current working directory and copy the full path: `pwd`
1. Open this README file in VS Code and paste that path in [completions](#completions).

### Use Git on the CLI

1. [Confirm](https://docs.github.com/en/github/using-git/setting-your-username-in-git) your name and email is correct in the Git config
1. View the status of your repo: `git status`
1. View the changed files of your repo: `git diff`
1. Add all changed files to the staging area `git add .`
1. View the status of your repo `git status` to confirm it has been staged
1. ✏️ Commit your changes with the message `commit #3 from CLI`. Add a link to this commit to [completions](#completions).
1. Use `git push` to [push those changes to your remote repo](https://docs.github.com/en/github/using-git/pushing-commits-to-a-remote-repository)



You've used most of these already through a GUI (e.g. `git status`, `git add`, `git commit`, `git push`) ...





## 7. Git Workflow > VS Code

1. From Github Desktop, you can open the [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) repo in VS Code using: Repository > Open in VS Code
1. ✏️ In VS Code, edit this README file and add your *3rd* favorite emoji to [completions](#completions).
1. ✏️ Create a new file `hello.txt`, add some text and save it.
1. Display the Git panel (click the small Git button at the bottom right).
1. Select on your file(s) in Unstaged changes and confirm your changes match what you expect to see
1. Double click on each file with changes to stage them
1. ✏️ Commit your changes directly to the main branch with the message `commit #4 from VS Code`. Add a link to this commit to [completions](#completions). 


<img src="assets/img/editor-git-menu-vs-code.png" width="400"> 



## 8. Create a new repository

1. ✏️ In Github Desktop, create a new repository with the name: `first-website`
1. Make sure the repository is public *not private* 
1. Local Path: Click "Choose" and create a new folder `first-website` inside the `<your-class-name-here>` folder you made above
1. Click Create Repository
1. This should now be your class folder's directory structure.

```html
<your-class-name-here>
|-- first-website
|-- learn-git-milestones
```

1. Open your new repository in VS Code (with Github Desktop or drag the `first-website` project folder onto the VS Code icon in your dock)
1. ✏️ Add a README file: `README.md`
1. ✏️ In the README write your name and the date
1. ✏️ Use some [Markdown tags](https://guides.github.com/pdfs/markdown-cheatsheet-online.pdf)
1. ✏️ Commit your changes and add a link to this repo to [completions](#completions).




## 9. Publish a website with Github Pages

[Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) is a free and easy way to host a website from your repository. 

1. ✏️ Create a file called `index.html` in your new repo and add the following code

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>My first github.io website</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Hello world!</h1>
<p>🙌</p>

</body>
</html>
```

1. On Github.com, go to your repo > Settings > Pages
1. Select the main branch source and click save
1. Do not use a theme. Start from scratch
1. Visit your project site at http://*username*.github.io/first-website
1. Update your project, push a new commit, and confirm your updates (note: [deployments](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones/deployments/github-pages) sometimes take a bit)
1. ✏️ Paste this link to [completions](#completions).










# PART 2 - Git Collaboration

Forking, branching, pull requests



## 1. Create a branch in Github Desktop

1. Save all your work in VS Code and close your files (this is not required to switch branches, but is a good practice so you don't lose work!). There should be no changes in your repo.
2. In Github Desktop, click Fetch and then Pull to make sure you are synced with the remote

![branch btn](assets/img/github-desktop-branch-btn.png)

3. Click the Branch dropdown (pictured above) to see the other branches in this repo. You should see `main` (your current branch) and one other. Switch to the other branch.
4. ✏️ Look in VS Code to see the contents of the other branch. Summarize the contents of the `cool-new-feature` file in the completions column.



## 2. Create a branch in Github Desktop

1. Use Github Desktop to switch back to the main branch.
1. Click Branch > New Branch... (or use the dropdown)
1. Name the branch (using no spaces or special characters) using your name + `-changes` (e.g. `owen-changes`)
1. Add a new file (a graphic or text file) with the same name to the repo.
1. Commit your changes
1. Publish your new branch and changes to the Github server
1. Open your repo on https://github.com and find the branches page.
1. ✏️ Click on your branch and paste the URL into the completions column.


## 3. Create a pull request

> *A pull request (PR) is the standard method to ask another project owner to merge commits from your fork or branch into their project. Since you own this repo you walk through the process on your own.*

1. On your repo Github page, click Pull Request. 
1. Click New pull request. 
1. Compare changes between your `main` branch and your new branch. You should see at least one commit listed below, as well as any added or changed files.
1. Click Create pull request. Then add any comments and click Create pull request again.
1. On the next page, click Merge pull requests to merge the commits into your `main` branch.
1. ✏️ Click Insights > Network to see the branch flowchart of your project. Paste the link into the completions below.


![pr](assets/img/github-new-pr.png)



## 4. Suggest changes to a partner's project using a PR

1. Find a partner and discuss a small improvement to one of their class projects (design, code, functionality).
1. Fork their repository and clone your fork to your computer.
1. Create a new branch with your name + the name of the improvement.
1. Make the improvement.
1. Commit your work to your new branch in your fork.
1. On on your fork on Github.com click Pull requests > New pull request. This will take you to their repo page where you can see a diff comparing your changes in your `fork:repo` to their base `fork:repo`. 
1. ✏️ Create the pull requst as you did above. They will receive an email to accept the change. Copy the link to the pull request to the completions table.






## Turn in this Assignment

Now that we have basic Git commands out of the way use Git to create and turn in your assignment ...

1. Complete all of the items on this README, making sure all the rows in the "Completed" column contain your information below.
1. Test your file(s) in a web browser
1. Commit and push the files to Github
1. Paste the github.io link into the appropriate Moodle forum



## Completions

Row | Item | Description | Completed
--- | --- | --- | ---
1 | 4a | 1st Favorite emoji | 😏
2 | 4b | Link to `commit #1 from Github.com` | https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones/commit/ae40c9fe02f424027687e0f4d88cf6d4018ec521
3 | 4c | Link to markdown tables docs | [Table](#completions)
4 | 4d | What does `log` do? | Displays the history of commit briefs
5 | 5a | 2nd Favorite emoji | 🫡
6 | 5b | Link to `commit #2 from Github Desktop` | https://github.com/alpnix/learn-git-milestones/commit/073bf0e5c7f7538fd8fe87d87265666c0352a2f3 (hash copied from GitHub Desktop)
7 | 6a | Full path to your working directory | /Users/alp/Desktop/DIG 250/learn-git-milestones
8 | 6b | Link to `commit #3 from CLI` | https://github.com/alpnix/learn-git-milestones/commit/e0c1b4ac43e1440ce669c57c1a7e6e9be209fa72 (hash copied from CLI through git log)
9 | 7 | 3rd Favorite emoji | 📚
10 | 8 | Link to `commit #4 from VS Code` | https://github.com/alpnix/learn-git-milestones/commit/5e74022103f18eae3be6c634775961e39409fab2 (hash from VS Code Source Control)
11 | 9a | Link to `first-website` github.com repo page | https://alpnix.github.io/learn-git-milestones/
12 | 9a | Link to `first-website` github.io "project site" |
13 | 10a | What is in Owen's dev branch? | 
14 | 10b | Link to your new branch on github.com | 
15 | 10c | Link to your network graph | 
16 | 10d | Link to the PR you made on a partner's github.com repo | 





## Resources

Here are some popular tutorials/guides. You should **still look for other ones that you might like better**!

- The Git & Github lectures found in the schedule
- Simple Git commands [cheatsheet](commands.md)
- [Github Desktop Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop) and [cheatsheet](https://github.github.com/training-kit/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet/) ([PDF](https://github.github.com/training-kit/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet.pdf) format)
- [Github Learning Lab](https://lab.github.com/) which contains tutorials like [Introduction to Github](https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/introduction-to-github) and others
- View forks of this repo http://gitpop2.herokuapp.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones



## Git Advanced

That is all that is required for this milestone. See the `advanced.md` file if you would like to continue learning Git.


## Credits

Thanks to [Jesse Farmer](https://github.com/jfarmer) for inspiring this milestone assignment.

Commit message:

adjusted index.html for dev branch

README.md, after:

<!-- 
<img width="400" src="assets/img/logo-git-github.png"> -->

# Git Milestones

An introduction to Git and Github.

- [PART 1 - Git Basics](#part-1---git-basics) - Install, configure, and peform basic operations
- [PART 2 - Git Collaboration](#part-2---git-collaboration) - Forking, branching, pull requests

## Instructions

1. Complete each task below, creating files and adding content inside the [completions](#completions) table when prompted with a ✏️   
1. Review course content as needed. Sometimes I share the command you need, but you may need to read the documentation.
1. This milestone is for multiple classes. Insert your own class name when prompted, for example: `critical-web-design`
1. After you finish, celebrate your Git proficiency! 🙌





# PART 1 - Git Basics

Install, configure, and peform basic operations



## 1. Install Git

⚠️ Complete the [command line crash course](https://github.com/omundy/learn-computing/blob/main/topics-command-line.md#crash-course) to prepare to install Git on your machine.
<!-- https://gist.github.com/derhuerst/1b15ff4652a867391f03 -->

### Windows

1. Download the installer at [gitforwindows.org](https://gitforwindows.org/). 
1. Run the installer. Use the default settings but make sure to install [Git BASH](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/git-bash). 
1. Proceed to "Configure Git"

### Mac

Install Git with Homebrew using these instructions:

1. Copy and run this whole line to Install the [homebrew package manager](https://brew.sh/). If prompted to "Install Command Line Developer Tools?", choose **yes**. 

```bash
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"
```

<small>If you are prompted to enter a password the command line doesn't give you feedback that you're typing. Just type your password and hit enter. Press backspace several times if you make a mistake.</small>

2. To confirm installation:

```bash
brew --version
```

3. Then install git using homebrew:

```bash
brew install git
```











## 2. Configure Git

1. This will verify Git is installed by outputing the current version.

```bash
git --version
# -> git version 2.38.1
```

2. Check to see if Git is already configured. If the following returns `"No such file or directory"` then continue to the next step.

```bash
cat ~/.gitconfig
```

3. Add your name (replace with ***your*** information, press return after each line)

```bash
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
```

4. Add your email

```bash
git config --global user.email youraddress@example.com
```

5. Set the [default branch to main](https://www.theserverside.com/feature/Why-GitHub-renamed-its-master-branch-to-main)

```bash
git config --global init.defaultBranch main
```

6. Set pull to merge ([not rebase](https://stackoverflow.com/a/36587353/441878))

```bash
git config --global pull.rebase false
```

7. Confirm your global settings worked

```bash
cat ~/.gitconfig
```




## 3. Markdown Introduction

Markdown is a lightweight markup language for creating rich text.

- It has a [simple syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/) similar to [HTML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown#Example)
- It is the standard language for formatting README files (what you are currently viewing!)
- Files use the `.md` extension and can be edited with any plain text editor (e.g. VS Code).
- Preview using the VS Code or the [Markdown Viewer](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/markdown-viewer/ckkdlimhmcjmikdlpkmbgfkaikojcbjk/related?hl=en) 

Markdown | HTML | Rendered Output
--- | --- | ---
`[link](https://davidson.edu)` | `<a href="https://davidson.edu">link</a>` | [link](https://davidson.edu)
`**bold text**` | `<b>bold text</b>` | **bold text**
`*italicized text*` | `<i>italicized text</i>` | *italicized text*
<code>\`code`</code> | `<code>code</code>` | `code`
`![text](assets/img/icon.png)` | `<img alt="text" src="assets/img/icon.png">` | ![text](assets/img/icon.png)

**Now you know basic Markdown!** 🎉  

The following instructions will help you learn Git, editing this `.md` file in the process. Use the [github markdown cheatsheet](reference-sheets/github-markdown-cheatsheet.pdf) to check your syntax.

Other Markdown tools

- [Paste (RTF or rendered HTML) to Markdown](https://euangoddard.github.io/clipboard2markdown/)
- [HTML to Markdown](https://codebeautify.org/html-to-markdown)







## 4. Fork this repository

Create a Github account and make your first commit on Github.com

1. [Create a Github account](https://github.com/join)
1. Fork this [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) repository (click the Fork button, top right).
1. ✏️ Edit this `README.md` file (click the pencil icon on the Github.com page) and add your *1st* favorite emoji to the [Completions](#completions) table, in the **Completed** column in appropriate row in the [completions](#completions), below.
1. Commit changes to `README.md` to the `main` branch with the message `commit #1 from Github.com`.
1. ✏️ Use [Markdown documentation](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/) to add a link in [completions](#completions). The link text should be the same as the commit message, and the url should point to the Github.com page showing the above commit.
1. ✏️ Tables can be a little tricky in Markdown. Find a good link explaining how to use markdown tables. Paste the link in the [Completions](#completions) table.
1. View the commit history and confirm your edits
1. ✏️ What does `git log` do? Add your answer to [completions](#completions).





## 5. Git Workflow > Github Desktop

Perform a basic Git workflow using Github Desktop. This is the first of four different interfaces to give you practice with Git. You've already forked and made a commit on Github.com so let's move to Github Desktop ...


### Setup

1. Install [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) on your computer
1. Connect your Github account in Github Desktop
1. In Github Desktop, clone the fork (you made above) [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) ...
1. File > Clone Repository > Github.com and select it ...
1. Local Path: Click "Choose" and add a new folder on your computer. This will be the base folder for your work in this class (e.g. `critical-web-design`, `game-development` )
1. Click "Clone" to make a local copy

### Open in VS COde

1. Install [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) and connect your Github account
1. Open the repo in VS Code: Repository > Open in VS Code (see preferences to change your editor)
1. ✏️ In VS Code, edit this README file and add your *2nd* favorite emoji to [completions](#completions).
1. In Github Desktop, view/confirm your edits to the README file on the Changes tab
1. ✏️ Commit your changes directly to the main branch with the message `commit #2 from Github Desktop`. 
1. Find a link to the above commit on Github.com and use VS Code to add it to [completions](#completions). Commit your change.
1. Click Push origin to push your new commit to remote repo
1. Confirm the changes to the README file were pushed: Choose Repository > View on Github
1. Click on the README file and then click on History to see the history of this file



## 6. Git Workflow > Command line 

Some folks use the CLI as their default tool for editing and publishing source code, but Github Desktop makes it much easier.

### Setup

1. In Github Desktop, ensure you are currently in the [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) repo you cloned above.
1. Click Repository > Open in Terminal ("Bash" in Windows?)

### Use the CLI to navigate directories


1. List files in this directory: `ls`
1. List files in this directory, including hidden: `ls -la`
1. Confirm the existence of the `.git` directory (where Git versions and config are stored)
1. ✏️ View your current working directory and copy the full path: `pwd`
1. Open this README file in VS Code and paste that path in [completions](#completions).

### Use Git on the CLI

1. [Confirm](https://docs.github.com/en/github/using-git/setting-your-username-in-git) your name and email is correct in the Git config
1. View the status of your repo: `git status`
1. View the changed files of your repo: `git diff`
1. Add all changed files to the staging area `git add .`
1. View the status of your repo `git status` to confirm it has been staged
1. ✏️ Commit your changes with the message `commit #3 from CLI`. Add a link to this commit to [completions](#completions).
1. Use `git push` to [push those changes to your remote repo](https://docs.github.com/en/github/using-git/pushing-commits-to-a-remote-repository)



You've used most of these already through a GUI (e.g. `git status`, `git add`, `git commit`, `git push`) ...





## 7. Git Workflow > VS Code

1. From Github Desktop, you can open the [learn-git-milestones](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones) repo in VS Code using: Repository > Open in VS Code
1. ✏️ In VS Code, edit this README file and add your *3rd* favorite emoji to [completions](#completions).
1. ✏️ Create a new file `hello.txt`, add some text and save it.
1. Display the Git panel (click the small Git button at the bottom right).
1. Select on your file(s) in Unstaged changes and confirm your changes match what you expect to see
1. Double click on each file with changes to stage them
1. ✏️ Commit your changes directly to the main branch with the message `commit #4 from VS Code`. Add a link to this commit to [completions](#completions). 


<img src="assets/img/editor-git-menu-vs-code.png" width="400"> 



## 8. Create a new repository

1. ✏️ In Github Desktop, create a new repository with the name: `first-website`
1. Make sure the repository is public *not private* 
1. Local Path: Click "Choose" and create a new folder `first-website` inside the `<your-class-name-here>` folder you made above
1. Click Create Repository
1. This should now be your class folder's directory structure.

```html
<your-class-name-here>
|-- first-website
|-- learn-git-milestones
```

1. Open your new repository in VS Code (with Github Desktop or drag the `first-website` project folder onto the VS Code icon in your dock)
1. ✏️ Add a README file: `README.md`
1. ✏️ In the README write your name and the date
1. ✏️ Use some [Markdown tags](https://guides.github.com/pdfs/markdown-cheatsheet-online.pdf)
1. ✏️ Commit your changes and add a link to this repo to [completions](#completions).




## 9. Publish a website with Github Pages

[Github Pages](https://pages.github.com/) is a free and easy way to host a website from your repository. 

1. ✏️ Create a file called `index.html` in your new repo and add the following code

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
<title>My first github.io website</title>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Hello world!</h1>
<p>🙌</p>

</body>
</html>
```

1. On Github.com, go to your repo > Settings > Pages
1. Select the main branch source and click save
1. Do not use a theme. Start from scratch
1. Visit your project site at http://*username*.github.io/first-website
1. Update your project, push a new commit, and confirm your updates (note: [deployments](https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones/deployments/github-pages) sometimes take a bit)
1. ✏️ Paste this link to [completions](#completions).










# PART 2 - Git Collaboration

Forking, branching, pull requests



## 1. Create a branch in Github Desktop

1. Save all your work in VS Code and close your files (this is not required to switch branches, but is a good practice so you don't lose work!). There should be no changes in your repo.
2. In Github Desktop, click Fetch and then Pull to make sure you are synced with the remote

![branch btn](assets/img/github-desktop-branch-btn.png)

3. Click the Branch dropdown (pictured above) to see the other branches in this repo. You should see `main` (your current branch) and one other. Switch to the other branch.
4. ✏️ Look in VS Code to see the contents of the other branch. Summarize the contents of the `cool-new-feature` file in the completions column.



## 2. Create a branch in Github Desktop

1. Use Github Desktop to switch back to the main branch.
1. Click Branch > New Branch... (or use the dropdown)
1. Name the branch (using no spaces or special characters) using your name + `-changes` (e.g. `owen-changes`)
1. Add a new file (a graphic or text file) with the same name to the repo.
1. Commit your changes
1. Publish your new branch and changes to the Github server
1. Open your repo on https://github.com and find the branches page.
1. ✏️ Click on your branch and paste the URL into the completions column.


## 3. Create a pull request

> *A pull request (PR) is the standard method to ask another project owner to merge commits from your fork or branch into their project. Since you own this repo you walk through the process on your own.*

1. On your repo Github page, click Pull Request. 
1. Click New pull request. 
1. Compare changes between your `main` branch and your new branch. You should see at least one commit listed below, as well as any added or changed files.
1. Click Create pull request. Then add any comments and click Create pull request again.
1. On the next page, click Merge pull requests to merge the commits into your `main` branch.
1. ✏️ Click Insights > Network to see the branch flowchart of your project. Paste the link into the completions below.


![pr](assets/img/github-new-pr.png)



## 4. Suggest changes to a partner's project using a PR

1. Find a partner and discuss a small improvement to one of their class projects (design, code, functionality).
1. Fork their repository and clone your fork to your computer.
1. Create a new branch with your name + the name of the improvement.
1. Make the improvement.
1. Commit your work to your new branch in your fork.
1. On on your fork on Github.com click Pull requests > New pull request. This will take you to their repo page where you can see a diff comparing your changes in your `fork:repo` to their base `fork:repo`. 
1. ✏️ Create the pull requst as you did above. They will receive an email to accept the change. Copy the link to the pull request to the completions table.






## Turn in this Assignment

Now that we have basic Git commands out of the way use Git to create and turn in your assignment ...

1. Complete all of the items on this README, making sure all the rows in the "Completed" column contain your information below.
1. Test your file(s) in a web browser
1. Commit and push the files to Github
1. Paste the github.io link into the appropriate Moodle forum



## Completions

Row | Item | Description | Completed
--- | --- | --- | ---
1 | 4a | 1st Favorite emoji | 😏
2 | 4b | Link to `commit #1 from Github.com` | https://github.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones/commit/ae40c9fe02f424027687e0f4d88cf6d4018ec521
3 | 4c | Link to markdown tables docs | [Table](#completions)
4 | 4d | What does `log` do? | Displays the history of commit briefs
5 | 5a | 2nd Favorite emoji | 🫡
6 | 5b | Link to `commit #2 from Github Desktop` | https://github.com/alpnix/learn-git-milestones/commit/073bf0e5c7f7538fd8fe87d87265666c0352a2f3 (hash copied from GitHub Desktop)
7 | 6a | Full path to your working directory | /Users/alp/Desktop/DIG 250/learn-git-milestones
8 | 6b | Link to `commit #3 from CLI` | https://github.com/alpnix/learn-git-milestones/commit/e0c1b4ac43e1440ce669c57c1a7e6e9be209fa72 (hash copied from CLI through git log)
9 | 7 | 3rd Favorite emoji | 📚
10 | 8 | Link to `commit #4 from VS Code` | https://github.com/alpnix/learn-git-milestones/commit/5e74022103f18eae3be6c634775961e39409fab2 (hash from VS Code Source Control)
11 | 9a | Link to `first-website` github.com repo page | https://alpnix.github.io/learn-git-milestones/
12 | 9a | Link to `first-website` github.io "project site" | https://github.com/alpnix/learn-git-milestones/blob/main/index.html (this is a link to my index.html that is displayed on my github pages - instead of having a separate repo the display can be made within this repo as index.html in the root directory will default to being rendered in any repo)
13 | 10a | What is in Owen's dev branch? | Once you view the branches, Owen's cool new feature branch will show. After I checkout to the branch, I realized there is an mp4 file called cool new feature that is different than the main branch. 
14 | 10b | Link to your new branch on github.com | 
15 | 10c | Link to your network graph | 
16 | 10d | Link to the PR you made on a partner's github.com repo | 





## Resources

Here are some popular tutorials/guides. You should **still look for other ones that you might like better**!

- The Git & Github lectures found in the schedule
- Simple Git commands [cheatsheet](commands.md)
- [Github Desktop Documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop) and [cheatsheet](https://github.github.com/training-kit/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet/) ([PDF](https://github.github.com/training-kit/downloads/github-git-cheat-sheet.pdf) format)
- [Github Learning Lab](https://lab.github.com/) which contains tutorials like [Introduction to Github](https://lab.github.com/githubtraining/introduction-to-github) and others
- View forks of this repo http://gitpop2.herokuapp.com/omundy/learn-git-milestones



## Git Advanced

That is all that is required for this milestone. See the `advanced.md` file if you would like to continue learning Git.


## Credits

Thanks to [Jesse Farmer](https://github.com/jfarmer) for inspiring this milestone assignment.
